---
layout: single
title:  "Extinguishing the Hearth"
date:   2025-03-18 23:34:45 -0800
categories: iOS
tags: ios blizzard gaming
---
Having recently launched [Mimeer](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fmimeer.starlard.dev%2F) and as I prepare to launch [Scooba](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fscooba.starlard.dev%2F), I've been reflecting on some of my past launches and felt it was time to talk about the story of launching my first independent app: Hearth Keeper. Hearth Keeper remains one of my favorite apps that I've ever worked on, but there's also so much I've learned since creating it that I would do differently now and hopefully by sharing about it others can learn from both my successes and my missteps.

# The Rise

In 2019 I launched my first app as an independent developer: Hearth Keeper, a game tracker for [Hearthstone](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fhearthstone.blizzard.com). At this point in my career I had developed many apps for fun and clients, but I had never released one of my own apps directly to users. Immediately after launch it was clear that users [loved](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.reddit.com%2Fr%2FCompetitiveHS%2Fcomments%2Fbs6k93%2Fintroducing_my_first_companion_app_for%2F) it and the app reached over 1000 users within the first few days of its release. Having only minimally advertised I had only expected a handful of people to download it. I was immediately caught off guard by the sudden success: before I knew it was reaching usage quotas and scrambling to scale in order to capitalize on the momentum. What I had initially planned to be a soft launch had quickly turned into a real one. A good problem to have, but one I was woefully unprepared for at the time. The days that followed were a mad dash for patching bugs and scaling up services, but ultimately I was able to get the app into a stable place.

In addition to my launch woes, the lack of an official API from Blizzard meant that in order to use game data in my app, I had to rely on community data sets that were data mined from game files and manually update my internal databases whenever Blizzard made changes to the game. If you've played an online competitive game before, you'll know that game updates happen *frequently*. This left me in a position where I had to be constantly on the watch of any updates from Blizzard and quick to react with updates in order to keep my users happy. While this worked in the interim, it was quickly apparent that this was not going to be a sustainable practice.

Thankfully for me, it was around this time that Blizzard introduced an [official API](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdevelop.battle.net%2Fdocumentation%2Fhearthstone%2Fgame-data-apis) for Hearthstone, which I wrote about in another [post](/posts/authenticating-users-with-blizzard-on-ios), and I thought my prayers had been answered. Little did I know the pit of frustration that was coming, which would ultimately lead me to pull Hearth Keeper from the store.

# The Fall

Soon after the release of the Hearthstone API I began work on migrating Hearth Keeper from depending on the first-party database that I had built and maintained to using data from the official API. At first, this seemed great. Not only would I no longer need to maintain datasets myself, but users could authenticate directly with Blizzard instead of needing to create new accounts with me. Up to this point, Hearth Keeper could only display data for the games that users had entered themselves within the app, but now with an API the door had been opened to automatically get access to all their games across any platform. I invested heavily into developing support for these features and created [HearthstoneKit](https://medium.com/r/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FStarLard%2FHearthstoneKit), an SDK for consuming the new API. Almost a year after the app's initial release, I was ready to release the beta for Hearth Keeper 2.0 complete with full support for Battle.net (Blizzard) Sign In and game data directly from Blizzard.

It was at this point that the fatal-flaw in my plans became apparent. With authentication migrated from servers *I* controlled to servers *Blizzard* controlled, I no longer had the ability to provision accounts for my own app. I was now completely reliant on Blizzard in order to create accounts for testing, development, and crucially: App Store review. At first this wasn't a problem. I was able to simply head over to Blizzard's website and create accounts as needed, which I could vend to Apple for review when submitting updates. Soon after, however; Blizzard released a change that all but completely broke my ability to submit new updates to the store: mandatory two-factor authentication. Suddenly, in order to sign-in a 2FA code had to supplied when attempting to log in. This meant that whenever Apple attempted to sign in to my app using the credentials I supplied them, them be prompted for a 2FA code that they had no access to and I had no ability to give.

Initially this seemed like the end right then and there, but I was able to work out a solution to unblock the next update. By connecting an authenticator app to the account, a request to approve or deny the sign in attempt would be sent to a device I controlled rather than needing to manually input a code. This would allow the App Store reviewers to sign in, so long as I approve the request in a timely manner. After re-submitting, I was able to get a new build approved, but I quickly realized this was not going to work in the long-run. If the request took too long to reach me or I was too slow to approve, the reviewer would simply deduce that sign-in did not work and block the build. Furthermore, App Store reviewers operate across the globe and did not predictably review the app when I was available to approve requests.

I opened a support ticket with Blizzard's developer support in order to acquire an account which was exempted from the 2FA requirement or for them to offer an alternative solution. After multiple back-and-forths attempting to plead my case, I was denied assistance and my case was closed. Frustrated by Blizzard's unhelpful support and unfriendly developer experience, I decided to cut my losses and close up shop. After a good run and a wild ride, I made the difficult decision to pull Hearth Keeper from the store. While the final outcome was certainly disappointing it was such a thrill to release something that users so quickly fell in love with and to see my hard work appreciated. I learned so much from the experience and would absolutely do it all over again.